DDOS ATTACKS

So what is common in these brands? twitter reddit the new
york times and paypal were all attacked by a single ddos attack 



This happened due to the attack on the domain name system provider DYN which took down all of the above brands for days


denial of service ddos attack is a malicious attempt to disturb the normal traffic of a targeted server service or network 

this is often done by overwhelming the target with a flood of internet traffic in other words ddos can take down a server by sending too many requests for information exposing it and hampering on an organization's usual business operations




It can be on government healthcare banking e commerce and streaming services as well

Lets discuss some types of ddos attacks like Volumetric attack.

CONTENTS OF THIS TEMPLATE
Here’s what you’ll find in this Slidesgo template: 

A slide structure based on an agency presentation template, which you can easily adapt to your needs. For more info on how to edit the template, please visit Slidesgo School or read our FAQs.
An assortment of illustrations that are suitable for use in the presentation can be found in the alternative resources slide.
A thanks slide, which you must keep so that proper credits for our design are given.
A resources slide, where you’ll find links to all the elements used in the template.
Instructions for use. 
Final slides with: 
The fonts and colors used in the template.
More infographic resources, whose size and color can be edited. 
Sets of customizable icons of the following themes: general, business, avatar, creative process, education, help & support, medical, nature, performing arts, SEO & marketing, and teamwork.

You can delete this slide when you’re done editing the presentation.




it directly affects web traffic by targeting the http or https dns or smtp protocols this type of attack is usually difficult to detect and fix because it easily imitates real online traffic. b2b software security is important to avoid these types of attacks


Sudo hping3 -S — scan 21–500
Scan open ports in the target pc.
— rand-source

they work by delivering pings that are intentionally sluggish or 
faulty causing the network to consume a
lot of memory during the verification
process protocol attacks can also target
firewalls by transmitting massive
amounts of purposely erratic data

I will demonstrate this type of attack today

When a client and server establish a normal TCP “three-way handshake,” the exchange looks like this:
Client requests connection by sending SYN (synchronize) message to the server.
Server acknowledges by sending SYN-ACK (synchronize-acknowledge) message back to the client.
Client responds with an ACK (acknowledge) message, and the connection is established.
In a SYN flood attack, the attacker sends repeated SYN packets to every port on the targeted server, often using a fake IP address. The server, unaware of the attack, receives multiple, apparently legitimate requests to establish communication. It responds to each attempt with a SYN-ACK packet from each open port.
The malicious client either does not send the expected ACK, or—if the IP address is spoofed—never receives the SYN-ACK in the first place. Either way, the server under attack will wait for acknowledgement of its SYN-ACK packet for some time.
During this time, the server cannot close down the connection by sending an RST packet, and the connection stays open. Before the connection can time out, another SYN packet will arrive. This leaves an increasingly large number of connections half-open – and indeed SYN flood attacks are also referred to as “half-open” attacks. Eventually, as the server’s connection overflow tables fill, service to legitimate clients will be denied, and the server may even malfunction or crash.

A SYN ACK flood DDoS attack is slightly different from an ACK attack, although the basic idea is still the same: to overwhelm the target with too many packets.
Remember how a TCP three-way handshake works: The second step in the handshake is the SYN ACK packet. Usually a server sends this SYN ACK packet in response to a SYN packet from a client device. In a SYN ACK DDoS attack, the attacker floods the target with SYN ACK packets. These packets are not part of a three-way handshake at all; their only purpose is to disrupt the target's normal operations.

Sudo hping3 -c 15000 -d 120 -S -w 64 -p 80 --flood --rand-source 192.168.1.159   ( c - no of packets -d datasize -w windows size -p port 80 –flood receive no replies –rand spoof ip destination ip )
Land attack is SYN attack but when the target is hit with spoofed ip of targets address itself. Similar to smurf attack 
hping3 -S -p 80 127.0.0.1 -a 127.0.0.1
Possible defence against TCP-SYN attacks could be : iptables -A INPUT -s %s -j DROP





Smurf is a network layer distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, named after the DDoS.Smurf malware that enables it execution.
Smurf attacks are somewhat similar to ping floods, as both are carried out by sending a slews of ICMP Echo request packets.
Unlike the regular ping flood, however, Smurf is an amplification attack vector that boosts its damage potential by exploiting characteristics of broadcast networks.
In a standard scenario, host A sends an ICMP Echo (ping) request to host B, triggering an automatic response. The time it takes for a response to arrive is used as a measure of the virtual distance between the two hosts.
In an IP broadcast network, an ping request is sent to every host, prompting a response from each of the recipients. With Smurf attacks, perpetrators take advantage of this function to amplify their attack traffic.
A Smurf attack scenario can be broken down as follows:
Smurf malware is used to generate a fake Echo request containing a spoofed source IP, which is actually the target server address.
The request is sent to an intermediate IP broadcast network.
The request is transmitted to all of the network hosts on the network.
Each host sends an ICMP response to the spoofed source address.
With enough ICMP responses forwarded, the target server is brought down.
The amplification factor of the Smurf attack correlates to the number of the hosts on the intermediate network. For example, an IP broadcast network with 500 hosts will produce 500 responses for each fake Echo requests. Typically, each of the relies is of the same size as the original ping request.
Sudo hping3 — icmp — flood 127.0.0.1 -a 127.0.0.1



Ping of Death (a.k.a. PoD) is a type of Denial of Service (DoS) attack in which an attacker attempts to crash, destabilize, or freeze the targeted computer or service by sending malformed or oversized packets using a simple ping command.
While PoD attacks exploit legacy weaknesses which may have been patched in target systems. However, in an unpatched systems, the attack is still relevant and dangerous. Recently, a new type of PoD attack has become popular. This attack, commonly known as a Ping flood, the targeted system is hit with ICMP packets sent rapidly via ping without waiting for replies.
How it works
The size of a correctly-formed IPv4 packet including the IP header is 65,535 bytes, including a total payload size of 84 bytes. Many historical computer systems simply could not handle larger packets, and would crash if they received one. This bug was easily exploited in early TCP/IP implementations in a wide range of operating systems including Windows, Mac, Unix, Linux, as well as network devices like printers and routers.
Since sending a ping packet larger than 65,535 bytes violates the Internet Protocol, attackers would generally send malformed packets in fragments. When the target system attempts to reassemble the fragments and ends up with an oversized packet, memory overflow could occur and lead to various system problems including crash.
Ping of Death attacks were particularly effective because the attacker’s identity could be easily spoofed. Moreover, a Ping of Death attacker would need no detailed knowledge of the machine he/she was attacking, except for its IP address.
It is worthy of note that this vulnerability, though best recognized for its exploitation by PoD attacks, can actually be exploited by anything that sends an IP datagram – ICMP echo, TCP, UDP and IPX.
Sudo hping3 — icmp -d 1472  — flood 127.0.0.1 -a 127.0.0.1


BOTNETS
Cyber criminals use special malware usually a Trojan horse to breach the security of several users computers these take control of each computer and
organize all of the infected machines into a network of bots which are unwitting tools that the cyber criminal can remotely manage the infected system
may act completely normal with no warning signs a bot can be a PC Mac or even a smartphone oftentimes the cybercriminal will seek to infect and control
thousands tens of thousands or even millions of computers so that they can act as the master of a large zombie network or bot network these botnets are
capable of delivering many different types of cyber crimes such as DDoS attacks spreading malware online fraud and wide scale spam or phishing campaigns in some cases cyber criminals will establish a large network of
sobbing machines and then sell access to the zombie network to other criminals either on a rental basis or as an outright sale spammers may rent or buy a
network in order to operate a large-scale spam campaign


Demonstration
DDOS
BOTnets

THANKS
Vivek Kiran Patil
112003160

